Robert Kennedy jr. son of the late
Robert F Kennedy has spent his life
fighting for causes he holds dear
including controversial ones for over
three decades Kennedy jr. served as an
attorney for top environmental groups
going toe-to-toe in lawsuits against
corporate giants more recently he's
questioned the safety of vaccines
eliciting rebukes from a consensus of
mainstream scientists and even from
family members he's here to talk about
the 2020 presidential race the future of
the planet argue with me about vaccines
and speak to the legacy of his family in
the age of Trump
[Music]
hello everyone I'm Andy serwer and
welcome to influencers and welcome to
our guest Robert F Kennedy jr.
environmental lawyer and anti-vaccine
advocate Robert welcome you Andy so let
me ask you first of all about the
wildfires in Australia because it's a
huge environmental crisis down there and
you're an environmentalist how do you
think that that is being handled down
there and what do you think that
reflects in terms of how we're handling
environmental crises around the world
well I think you know it's a predictable
of climate change and you know I live as
you know I live on the west coast now
and that house is the house I lived on
esko's has been evacuated we've had to
evacuate twice in two years very unusual
because it wasn't an area that was part
of the traditional fire zone at the fire
seasons in California now are two months
longer than historically have and the
same week that we were evacuated on a
West Coast our home we have a summer
home on Cape Cod which um which was and
that town was struck by the second storm
in two years that destroyed a pier that
had prior to the first storm been there
for a hundred years oh you know that all
of the modeling for climate change
indicates that we're going to be facing
superstorm storms on steroids droughts
you know antman that the disappearance
of the ice caps the disappearance the
glaciers on every continent and that
it's going to be you know there's gonna
be major disruptions not just to a
manatee but ultimately to civilization
and this is part of the cost we're
paying for our longtime deadly addiction
to coal and oil right if we had a true
free market economy in those industries
with paint
a cause of global warming to all of us
you know it wouldn't be able to
externalize those cause so how would you
mitigate that then well I mean there's
two questions how do you fortify the
planet for the upcoming Cataclysm for
rising seas and disappearing water and
the other is is there what can we do to
mitigate future impacts and to me you
know the answer the first one is clear
we actually you know imposes market
discipline on the energy markets we take
away the subsidies : all according to
IMF owes to industry discs at about five
point two trillion dollars in subsidies
annually and they couldn't compete you
know Ana Mari and the market in fact
last year 63 percent of the new
generation that was constructed
worldwide was renewables and it wasn't
constructive because of government
ordered it was constructive because the
markets are dictating it is by far the
cheapest form of energy solar today um
you know according to Bloomberg energy
is about 17 cents per kilowatt hour
whereas you know nuke is a ten-time set
right oh and coal is five times I didn't
get or coal is about seven or eight
times
um gas is a triple that oh if we had if
people really believed in free market
capitalism in every subsidy every
pollution is subsidy right right right
you know and if we really believe in
free market capitalism we could solve
this problem overnight
what Democratic candidate has the best
environmental platform which one do you
support then well you know I would say
all of them have a better environmental
platform than the current president and
I think all of them would do well on
environment and so I think most
Democrats
are just looking for a candidate who is
able to beat Donald Trump which isn't
very formidable task
yeah well is there one that you favor in
particular well I don't I haven't made
any endorsement I'm so I'm just kind of
looking what I'm watching the debates
I'm watching what's happening the
primaries my kids are working for mayor
P my cousin Joe is working for Elizabeth
Warren there are a number of other
members of my family who are working for
job iDEN we have relationships with you
know very strong relationships with most
the candidates and I I kind of go back
and forth
I hear the debate I love Tulsi Gabbard
when she talks about our foreign policy
I think you know I'm most closely
aligned with her with her foreign policy
and any of the other ones they're all
pretty good on the apartment right so
you have your take a little bit you go
back and forth the Kennedy family around
right what about a Oh Sees new green
deal what do you think about that I you
know I agree New Deal I think the Green
Deal is all that stuff is important is
good we ought to be pursuing it my
approach is more market-based then kind
of top-down dictates you know I believe
that we should use market mechanisms
like like carbon taxes and you know and
the elimination of subsidies and I think
that those are things that would
transition our economy fast if I'm a
from a coal based economy that is kind
of with the rule right now you know we
ought to have a market-based economy
that does what Mark is supposed to do
which is reward good behavior which is
efficiency and punish bad behavior which
is inefficiency in ways right now we
have a market that is governed by rules
and were written by the carbon
incumbents to reward the dirtiest filthy
as well as poison as most toxic most
warm
during fields from hell rather than the
cheap clean green also men and patriotic
fields from heaven and you know we need
to ration is our marketplace so that
other things that market is supposed to
do which is to create a society that
we're all proud of and that will sustain
our children you mentioned your family a
little bit and you also mentioned
President Trump now the president has
many family members working with him in
the White House as a member of a famous
American clan do you think that's a good
thing or a bad thing
I don't think it's a good or a bad thing
I you know I I don't think that's the
problem with the president what is the
problem with the president well I think
the problem is number one he's a bully
and you know I don't like bullies and I
don't think America you know that's part
of American tradition
I think in many ways he's discredited
the American experiment was of
governance you know I worked in China
for many years and all over the world
even ten years ago if you talk to the
top leaders in China what they would say
is you know we are working toward more
toward the American model of democracy
because we know that's kind of where we
want to go you've got a lot of problems
a billion people we have a lot of
poverty and we need to do things slowly
and incrementally and we can't do it
precipitously but that's where we're
headed if you go to China today and ask
them do you want a democracy like
America got anybody in the world this
they will say no because why would we
want a form of government a convertors
leadership of you know a person no it
doesn't read books so there's not awful
about it says um
you know who uses all that well employs
all the you know the dark outcome is
epidemic Audrey and it is you know is
wrong so much about about things about
America I admire and
make us and influence them make us an
exemplary nation after President Kennedy
I mean one of the mica models is is
influenced a lot by what I've seen
around that were old over the last 50
years what I saw after my uncle
President Kennedy's death if you go to
any capital in the world you'll see
there's a Boulevard named after John
Kennedy there are hospitals or schools
or universities the biggest at you and
out it's a BA is my uncle and you know
that love for America that was that is
exec that is demonstrated by those
things and there's people in the in John
Kennedy and Robert Kennedy I've run into
thousands and thousands of them across
the world love for our country that
represents was an asset for America it
was a financial asset it was a security
you will not find anybody any Boulevard
in any nation the world named Donald
Trump except one that maybe he well yeah
you're fine you know hotels what is I
know you won't say situations were a
government or people or a community as
this is something we admire and you know
I think that's you know that's a measure
of success for a president that's one of
the measures that we ought to be looking
at because it's it's such an important
critical asset for America in terms
particularly of our national security if
you have people in our country all over
the world
we're much less likely to get into a war
or conflicts and your cousin's wife Amy
Kennedy is going to be running for
Congress in the seat vacated by Jeff
Andrew in New Jersey what do you think
about that I applaud her I think it's
good that the in-laws now start getting
involved in the and the Kennedy family
business
that's funny and what about president
Trump's record on the environment well
it's a it's a cataclysm you know I don't
think President Trump came out of you
know is it anomaly
I think he's simply the radical
acceleration of a process that's been
happening in our country and in the
Republican Party for the past really
since nineteen eighty which is a growing
hostility toward the environment a
growing orientation to representing the
you know the concentrated corporate
power and you know power of particularly
of the oil industry and and the chemical
industry and some of the other large
polluting industries and as a result of
that under George Bush and under george
w bush are really an open assault on all
of our environmental laws what are you
trying to do as president of Waterkeeper
Alliance oh we have litigation against
ministration we probably have a dozen
lawsuits now and you know we're doing
what we do we now reprobation group in
the world
we're in 44 countries we have 350 patrol
boats patrolling local waterways rivers
and bays and 44 countries and we patrol
those waterways we tracked down
polluters and then we stopped them for
you we use litigation a lot o is all the
total what was the King said we're the
tools of advocacy which is a agitation
legislation litigation and education and
I would add an innovation and that came
out of Riverkeepers which was an
organization that Waterkeeper was kind
of blue collar coalition of commercial
and recreational fishermen that
mobilized Hudson in 1966 to reclaim the
river from its polluters they began
polluters and knots and hired me is
returned in 1984 we brought hundreds of
lawsuits today the Hudson is
international model for ecosystem
protection its richest waterway in the
North Atlantic it produces more pounds
of fish per acre more biomass per gallon
than any other one in the Atlantic North
the equator a miraculous resurrection
Hudson has inspired the creation now of
a river keepers all over the world and
we're not only the largest water
protection group or the fastest growing
so we've talked about how environment is
underseater in the United States because
of legislation or rollbacks maybe by the
Trump administration now in the Bush
administration prior to that where do
things stand internationally Robert are
things getting better or worse outside
of the US well the thing I mean the
environment is under assault everywhere
right
you know because of principally because
of fossils which are not only causing
climate change but also acidifying the
ocean and and you know poisoning us all
with mercury and I was acid rain which
is asteroids for us and and O's on a
particulates which was around 700,000
deaths annually globally around 20,000
the United States globally so all of
those you know the environment is under
assault you were you know that the
things that we can be hopeful for is one
there is much more knowledge about the
problem and there's a lot of activism
taking place now around the world and
then the I think the big hope for the
future is technology is that we do have
the technologies today does solve most
of our you know most dire environmental
problems with the exact population I you
know we have wind and solar has an out
plummeted and is canceled 14 billion
dollars worth of coal plants and that's
more than the entire coal fleet of Great
Britain because the cost of solar has
dropped some person
but it's a so there's hope that we can
pat plant we can power the globe
renewable energy and the question is you
know it's a race really a race to bottom
they you know how many species that
we're gonna be left with how eras
situate how many people are gonna be
displaced by drought and famine before
we actually cross a threshold and
operating philosophy us are there any
companies that to your mind have figured
out have got it in terms of helping the
environment rather than hurting it the
other many many companies out there that
have that commitment you know
unfortunately it's not just about kind
of being an example we actually need
rules and you know that reward good
behavior they said you know we're not
going to encourage you to make money by
hurting people or and you know by making
by degrading our country and getting us
into wars or polluting the blend or
whatever were actually I say you we want
you to make money we want you to do well
by doing good and it's easy to design
market rules that do that the market is
the most powerful economic engine that's
ever been devised by humanity but it has
to be harnessed with social purpose
otherwise it just what lead us on the
inevitable road of political oligarchy
and and corporate kleptocracy and
environmental apocalypse let me switch
and ask you about vaccines I'm curious
how did you come to the position that
vaccines were a problem first of all you
started out by any vaccine which I'm not
people say I'm an e vaccine because they
don't want to have any argument with me
about how to improve accidents and I'm
on any vaccine I'm I am I believe we
should have safe axons I believe we
should
ah science and I believe that we should
have independent regulators who are not
financially tied does the companies that
make our vaccines oh the the problem was
there's a couple of vaccines
I had three vaccines as a kid today's
kids get 72 and the reason I get so many
is because they're so profitable and
they were made profitable in 1986 when
Congress passed a law that said you
can't sue a vaccine companies no matter
how toxic the ingredient negligence the
company no matter how Grievous your
injury you can't sue them which means
that company has no incentive to make
them safer and remember the four
companies make also and he do it the
vaccines that are now mandated for our
kids are all serial felons well how did
you wait so how did you get pick this
issue though that's my question of all
the other is the I think the issue kind
of picked me I first of all I was suing
a bunch of coal burning power plants
cement kilns in 2004 discharging a Curie
you know poisoning all the fish America
and people started coming up to me at
that time only women with children no
intellectual disabilities ooh or vaccine
injured and they'd come up to me and say
if you're really concerned about mercury
exposed to children and he don't look at
back saying and I didn't want to do it
you know my family's been involved in
the issues of intellectual disability
generation you know it's something I
grew up with I care deeply about but I
wanted to spend my time protecting water
one of these women came to me on Cape
Cod and the entities as before in a big
pile of scientific studies and she put
them on my front stoop and she was a
psychologist a Minnesota and was doctors
our bridges her son had been I'm a
perfectly healthy boy on autism from
vaccine the vaccine court had
acknowledged that that was true and
given time a twenty million dollar
settlement and she put this pile on my
front stop and she said I'm not leaving
here so you read those and I'm very
accustomed to reading science it's part
of my job right I've got hundreds of
lawsuits all of scientific got very I
started reading that science and I was
immediately struck
I think huge Delta between what the
actual science was saying and what the
public health but there is Robert a huge
body of science that doesn't support
your position show it to me
okay well show it to me I I can but I'm
not gonna do that right here how many
one Saudi I'll show you a lot I will put
that and I will quit okay we will send
it to you probably and I'm just I have
no dog in this hunt I'm just telling you
that there's a big body of science and
several family members of yours it
called you out oh so what would you say
to them not me I've already said and
what I said
which I've written and published our
website oh and I say is people say
there's this huge body of science what
the science consists of is a handful a
handful of epidemiological Stephanie
it's written by industry and by the CDC
which is part of the industry and none
of those studies all of them are fatally
flawed and I can go through each one
with you and under those studies do what
you would want a study that you want it
to exculpate vaccines actually do which
is to compare a vaccinated population to
unvaccinated population and look at
health outcomes
I'm the institute of medicine which is
National Academy of Science where's the
ultimate arbiter of vaccine safety
science has repeatedly said CDC you are
claiming that you have studied this
issue particularly the issue between
legitimate vaccines you have not oh it's
an odd Robert Kennedy it's the medicine
which is high as
authorities scientific Authority in our
government write as repeatedly said the
CDC you have not done the study it was
necessary to make these claims that you
were making in 2017 you met with
President Trump and you said he was
going to appoint you ahead of a
commission about vaccines that didn't
happen why is that
my assumption as and an assumption is
based on empirical observation I can't
look in the president Trump's head at
the end of a at that point a to him and
you know of eyes are immediately after
that meeting with my visor made a
million-dollar contribution to president
Trump's inauguration and he then took
people or vaccine Lobby is appointed is
positions that see these in HHS and we
were cut off you have supported an
organization that put a lot of ads on
Facebook supporting your position and
now Facebook has banned those ads do you
think that Facebook is censoring you of
course AR all of the a big tech is
censoring any information about that's
why you can come up here and say I'm an
evac same because I cannot I there's no
for hardly an T vaccine or not I'm
against X I'm for vaccines but I'm for a
fax AIDS what's the safe facts I say
that has been tested against a
unvaccinated group and that word vaccine
or we can see from science the FX in is
averting more harm that it's causing and
that's all we want and if you show me
you had to study and I will quit my job
at the CH a I will post a study on our
website I will leave right now wanted to
72 Saenz that it's now mandated for our
children has ever been safety tested but
is possible you really believe Robert of
all the 72 vaccines that you say are out
there that they're all unsafe is that
really it does not seem I don't think
anybody can
that they're safe because they've never
been to had they've never been safety
test and and the reason they're not
safety test and the reason they have an
exemption every other medicine is tested
against a placebo usually four or five
years and double-blind test which means
you have a blue pill to ten thousand
people an identical blue pill to ten
thousand similarly situated people and
then you look at health outcomes every
other medicine every other medical
device has to go through that test the
only one that is permanently exempt from
that is vaccines and the reason for that
it's an artifact of CDC is like it's the
Public Health Service which was a
quasi-military agency which is why
people at CDC you have military ranks
the vaccine program was initially
implemented as a national security
defense against biological attacks on
our countries don't they people running
it wanted to be able to get a vaccine to
market very quickly to deploy it to 100
million Americans without regulatory
impediments so they said we're not gonna
call it medicine right because then we
have to test it right we're gonna call
it biologics and we're exempted from
testing and that's why no vaccine has
ever been safe yes you have to admit
that your position is controversial and
you have this strong reputation as an
environmentalist and a lot of people
criticize you about these positions do
you are you concerned about your
reputation of course I'd rather have
everybody loved me but I you know listen
I I'm seeing something where you're
saying
millions of children badly and we have
listen here's what HHS if you were born
prior to 1989 which is the year the
axial loaded you have a 12% chance of
having a chronic disease if you were
born after 1989 you have at 54% chance
nobody's explaining well I do all of our
kids have diabetes rheumatoid arthritis
oh I did all autism job from one in
10,000 and you're my generation the one
in 34 and the
st. generation why did food allergy
suddenly appear in 1989 they're all
coming from vaccines and by the way it's
not just me saying it all those 400
diseases that suddenly became epidemic
after 1989 every one of them is listed
as a side effect I've met in fact well
some people say the measles epidemic
that we've seen over the past few years
is because they're not people getting
vaccines so an answer me this why is it
that the CDC says 39 percent of the
people who got sick at Disneyland
vaccine strain I don't know the answer
to that okay I don't have what it shows
is that the problem is not that people
are not getting back at the facts in is
not effective as people people people
may disagree with that why don't we
switch to something less controversial
well I've got a less controversial let's
go to politics which is usually more
controversial than any other subject but
here it's probably less controversial I
want to ask you about Elizabeth Warren's
wealth tax because you come from a
wealthy family but you're also liberal
from a liberal family do you support
Elizabeth Warren's wealth tax I you know
I don't know the details but I
definitely think that the gap between
rich or poor in this country is much too
large that we've destroyed the middle
class in this and that the and that the
very wealthy people a lot of people in
taxes and corporations I mean why is it
that Amazon didn't pay a dollar in taxes
all right people everybody should pay
their fair share
what about what Bernie Sanders says in
terms of billionaires shouldn't exist
well I don't think we should mat and
billionaires I think you know that's not
the way to go about it I you know we had
a 50-year part of our history which is
called the great prosperity when we
developed the American middle class
which was the driver of the world
economy it was the driver of our economy
and created happy
and quality of life in our country and
during a most I'd be heard there was a
91% tax on the upper echelon when my
uncle became president it was at ninety
percent tax on the wealthy in this
country is that too much yeah that's
probably too much you need to
incentivize people to work hard smart
people to make money but at the same
time we need to make sure that we keep
the middle class intact and that and
that you know we don't want the kind of
country the kind of distribution and
wealth that they have in Latin America
and elsewhere because it causes
instability it caused unhappy and as a
lot of all out of all it's not good for
anybody
I mentioned Bernie Sanders I guess I
have to ask you do you and your wife
Cheryl Hines like Larry David's
impressions of Bernie Sanders have you
seen that yeah
like very good and I don't know if you
know that but it turned out they both
did 23andme and they found out that they
were um you know actually distantly
related which to Larry and earning is
that right yeah it's not surprising
that's very funny and finally last
question Robert you've had to overcome
all kinds of tragedies and personal
demons in your life how have you learned
to manage those and and grow and and and
become a leader in your field well I
mean that's a big question you know I
listen I try to live my life like
everybody I you know I I went through a
you know an evolution a spiritual
evolution that was spiritual mental
emotional and many other things I mean
for me I struggled with addiction from
when I was about 15 years old when I was
29 and I think in many ways my my
struggle overcome that taught me a lot
of lessons about how to live my life in
a way that was
less directed towards I'm making myself
immediately happy and understanding that
any kind of anything that I do that is
consequential that is durable is gonna
come from trying to be of service to
other people and at any time that I
become the focus of my efforts that it
just you know which that's a a lot of
life is about learning how to handle
power because you know we all get to
reduce we all hit a bottom somewhere
where our lives are you know are empty
in and uh and nothing good is happening
and you pray to God and you try to get
some direction and then maybe go forward
and your life starts to get bigger again
and things flow into it and your
inclination is at least mine you know is
thank you God I got it from here and I
Drive the car off the cliff again and a
lot of life is really you you can't live
off the laurels of a spiritual awakening
you have to renew your you know your
spiritual reservoirs every day and what
I found is the most reliable way of
doing that is to try to look for what is
to be a service to other people
Robert F Kennedy jr. thank you very much
for your time thank you for having me
and thanks for your courage and a cut
bearing that it should because nobody
else
you've been watching influencers I'm
Andy serwer
and we'll see you next time